W-13595650-VariablesDoc-ESB (#466)
mulesoft/docs-composer: en/mulesoft/modules/ROOT/pages/ms_composer_flows.adoc

* Fields without attributes, the null value is ignored. If the value in a required field, an error message occurs. If the value is in an optional field, the value is ignored and not sent to the connector. +
* Fields with attributes, the value is ignored and not sent to the connector.

== Define a Variable

> You can define variables in your Composer flow. Defining a variable allows you to complete certain use cases like aggregating calculations and storing values. Variables are defined locally within a flow and can be used anywhere within that flow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define variables in your Composer flow. Defining a variable enables you to complete certain use cases, such as aggregating calculations and storing values. You define variables locally within a flow and use them anywhere within that flow. 
```

Reviewer: I prefer enable because allow implies permission.

[[access-the-variable-step]]
=== Access the Variable Step 

To access the *Variable* step: 

> . <<create-a-new-flow,Create a new flow>> or open an existing flow. +

Reviewer: I think we decided to use the + on a line by itself for consistent line spacing.

Author: Done! 

PS - I wonder if there is a find and replace function we can use to fix this... because Composer is full of blank spaces.

> The *<Flow Name>* page appears.

Reviewer: Is this necessary? 
Or can you combine with the next step "In the *<Flow Name>* page, click *Edit*."?

. Click *Edit*. 
. Locate the position in your flow where you want access the *Variable* step and click the plus button. 
. In the *Next Step* window, click *Variable*. +

> The *Variable* step appears. 

Reviewer: Necessary?

Author: I think this one is necessary. This is to add a card to the flow that you can then interact with. I think this tells the user what they should see and sets up the subsequent steps that reference this set of steps.

=== Create a Variable Using the Visual Editor 

> To create one or more new variables using the *Visual Editor* window: 

Reviewer: Are there other ways to create variables? If not, maybe remove the words after "using". (Try to avoid duplicating the title and intro para.)

Author: There are - there are two separate ways to do create the variables. I tried to do it in one set of steps but things got too messy, so I had to make two sections for clarity. One, the Visual Editor, is the "wizard" way and the JSON Schema is the "gotta know code" way.

. <<access-the-variable-step,Access the *Variable* step.>> 

> . In the *Action* dropdown, click *Create Variable*.

Reviewer: From the?

Author: Done

> . In the *Action* dropdown, click *Create Variable*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Action* > *Create Variable*.
```

. In the *Variable* section, click *Add Variable*. 

> . In the *Visual Editor*, in the *Label* field, enter a unique name for the variable. Note that the name entered is only unique to this step. Values in the *Label* field can be duplicated across different Variable steps. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Visual Editor*, in the *Label* field, enter a unique name for the variable.
+
The name entered is unique only to this step. You can duplicate values in the *Label* field across different Variable steps. 
```

Reviewer: (Not sure if that changes the meaning.)

> . In the *Data Type* drop-down, select the data type you want to use for the variable. The following xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#data-types[data types] are supported: `String`, `Number`, `Boolean`, `Date`, `DateTime`.

Reviewer: Before, you used "dropdown" (noun), but here it's "drop-down" (adj). Kim's guidance is to replace "dropdown" with "menu".
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/Term+Presentation+Reference#TermPresentationReference-D

I think our guidance for selecting menu options is "From the menu" rather than "In the xxx"

Author: "Dropdown" vs "drop-down" always breaks my brain. I think is the noun version throughout. I don't think "menu" works because it is a list of fields, not so much a menu. I will get rid of the -.

> . Optionally, to add additional variables in the *Visual Editor*, click *Add Variable*. You can create multiple variables in each Variable step. 

Reviewer: "add additional" - can you remove "additional"?

Author: I guess I can because I have "multiple" in the next sentence.

. Click *Apply*. +

> The *Create Variables* window appears, displaying one or more new variables added to the flow. 

Reviewer: Necessary?

> . Optionally, to make changes to the new variables, click *Manage Variables* to open the Visual Editor or *Edit Schema* to open the JSON Schema. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optionally, to change the variables, click *Manage Variables* to open the Visual Editor or *Edit Schema* to open the JSON Schema. 
```

Reviewer: Schema correctly capitalized?

> . Complete the initial value for each variable. The default value is defined under each variable. If the field empty, the value is set to the default value for that data type. You can enter a value manually, select any existing data pill (including variables) from your flow, or you can select the xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#add-custom-expression-to-an-action[*Custom Expression Editor*] to create a custom expression. 

Reviewer: Complete -> Enter? Specify?

Author: They can be entered or selected from a list.

> . Complete the initial value for each variable. The default value is defined under each variable. If the field empty, the value is set to the default value for that data type. You can enter a value manually, select any existing data pill (including variables) from your flow, or you can select the xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#add-custom-expression-to-an-action[*Custom Expression Editor*] to create a custom expression. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Complete the initial value for each variable. The default value is defined under each variable. If the field is empty, the value is set to the default value for that data type. You can manually enter a value, select any existing data pill (including variables) from your flow, or select the xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#add-custom-expression-to-an-action[*Custom Expression Editor*] to create a custom expression. 
```

=== Create a Variable Using the JSON Schema

To create one or more new variables using the *JSON Schema* window: 

. <<access-the-variable-step,Access the *Variable* step.>> 

> . In the *Action* dropdown, click *Create Variable*.

Reviewer: See previous

Author: Done

. In the *Variable* section, click *Create Schema*. 

> . In the *JSON Schema* window, enter the properties for the variable you want to create. Note that: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *JSON Schema* window, enter the properties for the variable to create. 
+
Note that: 
```

> .. Each variable is defined within a `Properties`  object with a `Variable Unique ID`.  The `Variable Unique ID` allows the variable to be tracked within your flow. The `Variable Unique ID` can only contain alphanumeric characters, hyphens, and underscores. When using the Visual Editor, this ID is automatically generated for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Each variable is defined within a `Properties`  object with a `Variable Unique ID`.  The `Variable Unique ID` enables the variable to be tracked within your flow. The `Variable Unique ID` can contain only alphanumeric characters, hyphens, and underscores. When using the Visual Editor, this ID is automatically generated for you.
```

Each variable must specify the `Name` and data type. To set the properties for the variable definition, complete the following:

> ... `Variable Label (Title)`:  The display label for the variable. A value is required. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... `Variable Label (Title)`: The display label for the variable. A value is required. 
```

Reviewer: Is there a way to flag the required items? Like `Variable Label (Title): (Required)

> ... `Type` : The data type of the variable. The following xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#data-types[data types] are supported: `String`, `Number`, and `Boolean`. To define a `Date` or `DateTime` variable, the data type should be set to `String` and the `Format` property should be defined. A value is required. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... `Type`: The data type of the variable. The following xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#data-types[data types] are supported: `String`, `Number`, and `Boolean`. To define a `Date` or `DateTime` variable, the data type should be set to `String` and the `Format` property should be defined. A value is required. 
```

> ... `Format`:  The qualifier for `String` properties that can specify additional data types not natively supported in JSON. For variables, this must be set when defining `Date` or `DateTime` variables as `date` or `date-time` respectively. A value in this field is optional. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... `Format`:  The qualifier for `String` properties that can specify additional data types not natively supported in JSON. For variables, this value must be set when defining `Date` or `DateTime` variables as `date` or `date-time` respectively. (Optional)
```

Reviewer: I'm thinking, by putting just (Optional) or (Required), it will be easier for the reader to scan.

Author: Done!

//this should be a result statement... but how?! The Dev insisted that we have this section but I have no idea how to format it and I really don't even know how to introduce it.

> The properties are entered into the *JSON Schema* window. For example: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The properties and values appear in the *JSON Schema* window. For example: 
```

Reviewer: You could use the collapsible element?

[source,JSON]
----
{
"properties": {
"var-01": {
"type": "string",
"title": "My String"
},
"var-02": {
"type": "number",
"title": "My Number"
},
"var-03": {
"type": "boolean",
"title": "My Boolean"
},
"var-04": {
"type": "string",
"title": "My Date",
"format": "date"
},
"var-05": {
"type": "string",
"title": "My Datetime",
"format": "date-time"
}
}
}
----

> //Does anyone have any idea how to indent this block and make the step numbers continue instead of restart?! 

Reviewer: Use the + after the ... step.

https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/Formatting+with+Asciidoc#FormattingwithAsciidoc-ListContinuation(akaIndentedParagraphs)

Author: Done!

> . Optionally, to add additional variables in the JSON Schema, enter them in the window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optionally, to add variables in the JSON Schema, enter them in the window.
```

. Click *Apply*. +

> The *Create Variables* window appears, displaying one or more new variables added to the flow. 

Reviewer: Necessary?

Kim prefers shows.
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-%22appears,%22%22displays%22

Author: I think it is necessary. This tells the user what they should see on the screen. I don't think "shows" works in this context.

> . Optionally, to make changes to the new variables, click *Manage Variables* to open the Visual Editor or *Edit Schema* to open the JSON Schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optionally, to change the variables, click *Manage Variables* to open the Visual Editor or *Edit Schema* to open the JSON Schema.
```

> . Complete the initial value for each variable. The default value is defined under each variable. If the field is empty, the value is set to the default value for that data type. You can enter a value manually, select any existing data pill (including variables) from your flow, or you can select the xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#add-custom-expression-to-an-action[*Custom Expression Editor*] to create a custom expression. 

Reviewer: See previous comment on line 366.

=== Update a Variable 

To update one or more variables: 

> . <<access-the-variable-step,Access the *Variable* step.>> 

Reviewer: See previous comments

. In the *Action* dropdown, click *Update Variable*.
. In the *Variable* section, click *Select Variables*. +

> The *Select Variables* window appears, displaying a list of all variables included in your flow before this step. 

Reviewer: Necessary?

Author: Ashley was very specific about this one. She wants it known that it ONLY shows variables that were added prior to this step and nothing after.

> . Select the check box next to one or more variables or click *Select all <Number> variables* to select all variables in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the checkbox for one or more variables or click *Select all <Number> variables*.
```

. Click *Apply*. +
The *Update Variable* step appears. 

> . Update the value for each variable. You can enter a value manually, select any existing data pill (including variables) from your flow, or you can select the xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#add-custom-expression-to-an-action[*Custom Expression Editor*] to create a custom expression. Note that if you are updating a variable with a value created from another variable, do not update them in the same step. Variables are not necessarily updated in the same order in which they are listed. To avoid unexpected behavior, update each variable in a separate steps. 

Reviewer: See previous

+
Note that each variable is defined within a `Properties`  object with a `Variable Unique ID`.  The `Variable Unique ID` enables the variable to be tracked within your flow. The `Variable Unique ID` can contain only alphanumeric characters, hyphens, and underscores. When using the Visual Editor, this ID is automatically generated for you.
Each variable must specify the `Name` and data type. To set the properties for the variable definition, complete the following: +

... `Variable Label (Title)`: The display label for the variable. (Required) 
... `Type`: The data type of the variable. The following xref:ms_composer_custom_expression_editor.adoc#data-types[data types] are supported: `String`, `Number`, and `Boolean`. To define a `Date` or `DateTime` variable, the data type should be set to `String` and the `Format` property should be defined. (Required) 
... `Format`:  The qualifier for `String` properties that can specify additional data types not natively supported in JSON. For variables, this value must be set when defining `Date` or `DateTime` variables as `date` or `date-time` respectively. (Optional)

+
The properties and values appear in the *JSON Schema* window.  

+

> .Example *JSON Schema* window

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example: Properties and values in the *JSON Schema* window
```
